readme.md, before:

# Replicantface

This project is about rendering synthetic faces with pose annotations. It is intended for
head pose estimation with machine learning, where labeling natural in-the-wild faces is notoriously difficult.

A dataset is provided as well as scripts and (the free) assets used to create the dataset.
The project is based on [Blender](https://www.blender.org/) for photorealistic rendering and
[Human Generator](https://blendermarket.com/products/humgen3d) to provide the character models.

Faces are randomized with a great variety of different poses, face shapes, expressions, skin textures, hairstyles,
accessories, eye movements, backgrounds and lighting.

To carry this out, a rather large volume of python code controls the character generation and other parameters.

Exported annotations are segmentation mask, 6dof pose, and dense vertices.
A script is provided to convert to the popular Matlab format from [3DDFA](http://www.cbsr.ia.ac.cn/users/xiangyuzhu/projects/3DDFA/main.htm) / AFLW2k-3D / 300W-LP.

## Related work

Replicantface is heavily inspired by [FaceSynthetics](https://github.com/microsoft/FaceSynthetics), motivated by its lack of pose
annotations and missing z-coordinate for landmarks. Another dataset called "SynHead" from [Dynamic Facial Analysis](https://research.nvidia.com/publication/2017-07_dynamic-facial-analysis-bayesian-filtering-recurrent-neural-network) was very limited in variety and without hair.

## The dataset

There is a prepared dataset with approx. 96000 faces, full pose annotations and 68 3d landmarks in AFLW2k-3D / 300W-LP format.
[Download from Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/17WphiAB5JPYxOOSu4k2iwKqrDWPlqTh-/view?usp=drive_link)

Full size image with visu
![](doc/replicantface.jpg)

Closeups
![](doc/panel.jpg)

More info can be found under [dataset.md](doc/dataset.md) and [rawdata.md](doc/rawdata/rawdata.md)

## Usage

This project will not work out of the box. First, get HumGen3d for Blender.

Then consider the scene assets. See [assets/readme.md](assets/readme.md). At least some backgrounds would be requried.
You can download any HDRI you want and place them in the `hdris` folder. For the HDRIs listed, the `randomize_env` module 
has multipliers to make the brightness more uniform.

The paid accessories are not in this repo for obvious reasons. The scripts
will work without them. For more variety get assets to your preference, put them next to the existing assets in the scene
hierarchy in (`human_scene-v3.blend`), ensure they fit the human model, and adjust material assignments. You can use the
remaining models as guideline. The module `replicantface/randomize_accessoires.py` must then be changed. Its main
responsibility is random sampling of accessories, prevention of unreasonable combinations. The issue hereby is that
it contains hardcoded names and logic for the missing paid models.

The last step involving the assets is copying the files from `assets/humgen-assets` to HumGen3D's true asset folder.

Afterwards things should be ready to go. `make_faces.py` is the main entry point. It can be loaded in Blenders script
editor and ran interactively. The same can be done with the modules in `replicantface` which is useful for development.
After generating a random human, it renders, composits and dumps the image, segmentation mask and labels to disk.

For generating datasets, take a look at `run_blender.py`. It runs Blender in headless mode and executes `make_faces.py`
in a loop for a given number of times.
The raw labels contain dense face vertices, the model-view transformation matrix (thus the head pose), and projection matrix.
They can be converted by `auxiliary_scripts/convert_to_300wlp_type_dataset.py` to the AFLW2k-3D / 300W-LP format.

You might want to change the pose distribution as the current settings doesn't deliver optimal benchmark results as
explained in [dataset.md](doc/dataset.md). The relevant code is found in `replicantface/randomize_pose.py`:
`randomize_camera` and `randomize_pose`.

Commit message:

Various changes: variations of particular faces, optional wider pose distributions and more ...
* Allow saving and loading the scene to make variations of a particular face.
* Make replicantface pip installable
* Add option for wieder pose distributions
* Delete extra assets and add script to append them from a separate scene

readme.md, after:

# Replicantface

This project is about rendering synthetic faces with pose annotations. It is intended for
head pose estimation with machine learning, where labeling natural in-the-wild faces is notoriously difficult.

A dataset is provided as well as scripts and (the free) assets used to create the dataset.
The project is based on [Blender](https://www.blender.org/) for photorealistic rendering and
[Human Generator](https://blendermarket.com/products/humgen3d) to provide the character models.

Faces are randomized with a great variety of different poses, face shapes, expressions, skin textures, hairstyles,
accessories, eye movements, backgrounds and lighting.

To carry this out, a rather large volume of python code controls the character generation and other parameters.

Exported annotations are segmentation mask, 6dof pose, and dense vertices.
A script is provided to convert to the popular Matlab format from [3DDFA](http://www.cbsr.ia.ac.cn/users/xiangyuzhu/projects/3DDFA/main.htm) / AFLW2k-3D / 300W-LP.

## Related work

Replicantface is heavily inspired by [FaceSynthetics](https://github.com/microsoft/FaceSynthetics), motivated by its lack of pose
annotations and missing z-coordinate for landmarks. Another dataset called "SynHead" from [Dynamic Facial Analysis](https://research.nvidia.com/publication/2017-07_dynamic-facial-analysis-bayesian-filtering-recurrent-neural-network) was very limited in variety and without hair.

## The dataset

There is a prepared dataset with approx. 96000 faces, full pose annotations and 68 3d landmarks in AFLW2k-3D / 300W-LP format.
[Download from Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/17WphiAB5JPYxOOSu4k2iwKqrDWPlqTh-/view?usp=drive_link)

Full size image with visu
![](doc/replicantface.jpg)

Closeups
![](doc/panel.jpg)

More info can be found under [dataset.md](doc/dataset.md) and [rawdata.md](doc/rawdata/rawdata.md)

## Usage

This project will not work out of the box. First, get HumGen3d for Blender.

Install the replicantface package in Blenders Python distribution. This way the main script can conveniently import
all the submodules. The `-e` causes symlinks to be created such that changes in the original source are reflected in the
installed package. You can use `pip uninstall` to remove the package again.
`<blender dir>/<version>/python/bin/python* -m pip install -e .` 

Then consider the scene assets. See [assets/readme.md](assets/readme.md). At least some backgrounds would be requried.
You can download any HDRI you want and place them in the `hdris` folder. For the HDRIs listed, the `randomize_env` module 
has multipliers to make the brightness more uniform.

The paid accessories are not in this repo for obvious reasons. The scripts
will work without them. For more variety get assets to your preference, put them next to the existing assets in the scene
hierarchy in (`human_scene-v3.blend`), ensure they fit the human model, and adjust material assignments. You can use the
remaining models as guideline. The module `replicantface/randomize_accessoires.py` must then be changed. Its main
responsibility is random sampling of accessories, prevention of unreasonable combinations. The issue hereby is that
it contains hardcoded names and logic for the missing paid models.

The last step involving the assets is copying the files from `assets/humgen-assets` to HumGen3D's true asset folder.

Afterwards things should be ready to go. `make_faces.py` is the main entry point. It can be loaded in Blenders script
editor and ran interactively. The same can be done with the modules in `replicantface` which is useful for development.
After generating a random human, it renders, composits and dumps the image, segmentation mask and labels to disk.

For generating datasets, take a look at `run_blender.py`. It runs Blender in headless mode and executes `make_faces.py`
in a loop for a given number of times.
The raw labels contain dense face vertices, the model-view transformation matrix (thus the head pose), and projection matrix.
They can be converted by `auxiliary_scripts/convert_to_300wlp_type_dataset.py` to the AFLW2k-3D / 300W-LP format.

You might want to change the pose distribution as the current settings doesn't deliver optimal benchmark results as
explained in [dataset.md](doc/dataset.md). The relevant code is found in `replicantface/randomize_pose.py`:
`randomize_camera` and `randomize_pose`.
